In this lesson, I'm going to show you how to use a latency based routing policy with Route 53.
Now you're going to need to launch a couple of instances and configure them as a website.
And then what we're going to do is use a VPN so that we can move ourselves around the internet and then
refresh a web page and see where we get directed.
So the first thing to do is launch a couple of instances minor in Frankfurt, which is in EU Central
one region.
And I've also got one in US East one in both cases.
What I've done is used this code here as user data.
This is the same code we used earlier on in the course.
And what it will do is create a web page that actually displays the availability zone, so we'll see
where we're actually getting directed.
Now I've already created mine and I've got the IP addresses, the public IP addresses here and I've
tested, and I know that both of these will return the web page.
So all we need to do before we start testing is go to around 50 free and create our latency based routing
policy.
So before I had over there, I'm going to copy the IP address of my first instance, the one that's
in US East, one in Route 53, I'm going to go to my hosted zone.
And of course, you will need a public hosted sign for this.
So I'm going to choose DCT Cloud Labs dot com.
And I'm going to try to record the record, it will be a record.
And the Valley will be the IP address and then for routing.
We need to change to licensee.
And then it's going to ask for the region.
So I'm going to change that to U.S. East one for record.
I'm going to call this US EC2 and create the record.
Next, we need to take the IP address of the other instance, create another record based in the IP
address.
Change routing is a licensee.
This one is in Frankfurt, U.S. EU Central one.
And so I'm just going to call this one EU EC2 and create that record.
So what we can do now is test by checking if we can connect to DCT Cloud Labs dot com.
Now I'm connected to a VPN and my VPN is connected to Mexico, so I should be a lot closer to us east
one.
So let's add a window here based in DST Cloud Labs dot com hit.
And we get sent to US East one.
See?
So now let's just change.
And what I'm going to do is connect somewhere in Europe, so let's connect to Belgium.
And that's it.
We're connected to Belgium.
So let's refresh.
And now we go to EU Central one, see?
So that's simply the latency based routing policy working.
It now knows that I'm closest to EU Central one.
See, so it's sending me to the endpoint, which has the lowest latency.
If I now go back in and maybe I change to Canada, refresh the page and straight away I get sent back
to the U.S. East one S. So that all works as expected, and you can actually also use health checks
as well.
That's optional.
If you have health checks enabled, then that means it's going to check that your endpoint is healthy
before sending traffic to it.
So that will help you to avoid any service not available.
OK, that's it for this lesson.
Now, all we need to do is just go back in and delete all my records and then don't forget to then go
ahead also and terminate your active instances.